hi everyone welcome to another tofu
class I'm Kylie and I'm one of the
expert TOEFL teachers here at Ito
language comm and today we are going to
look at the TOEFL speaking section so
today I'm going to give you three tips
to get 30 on 30 in the speaking section
of the test let's quickly have a look at
what tasks you will see in the speaking
section on test day in the first task
you'll be given two options you'll have
to choose one give your opinion and
explain why you prefer that particular
choice in task 2 you read a campus
announcement or read a letter and then
you listen to a conversation between two
students discussing the topics mentioned
in the announcement or letter and then
you'll be asked to summarize information
from both those sources in the third
task of the test you'll be given an
academic reading which is basically a
short passage about some sort of an
academic concept this could be from an
odd subject like sociology psychology or
it could be something from the heart
Sciences like physics chemistry so it
could basically be like any academic
topic and then you listen to part of a
lecture related to the concept that you
just read about and the lecture will
usually give examples and explain the
concept in further detail and finally
you'll be asked to summarize information
from the reading and listening tasks for
is very similar to task 3 just that you
will be listening to a lecture and then
you have to summarize the information
from that lecture so there's no reading
in task 4 now that we know what to
expect in this section let's see how to
ace it as I said at the beginning of the
lecture I'm going to give you three tips
to help you achieve 3130 in
speaking section let's start off with
tip number one this one is fairly
straightforward
you just need to take notes it's
important to remember that note-taking
is a very important skill for the TOEFL
test because you'll need your
note-taking skills in the listening
section and also in the speaking section
especially for the second third and
fourth tasks where you'll have to listen
to something and then summarize and in
the time pressure that you have so
you'll be given just a few seconds to
prepare your response it's really hard
to be able to come up with something to
say for a minute which is the time that
you'll be given to speak so it's very
important that you take notes and not
only take notes but that you take good
notes and you have all the note-taking
skills that you need beforehand so that
you don't struggle on test day so how
will you know it's helped you on test
day the first thing your notes will help
you do is stay on topic this is really
important because sometimes when you're
given a topic and asked to talk for like
an entire minute it can be easy to sort
of ramble on and go off-topic but even
talk about things that are not in the
reading and listening another reason
this is super important is because it's
part of the marking criteria so if we
look at these rubrics here this is
basically a marking guide that
examiner's will use to mark your
speaking responses so we have two
different ones here one for independent
speaking task well now that they've
gotten rid of the second one it's just
one task
the first rubric is for the independent
speaking task which is the first one and
the second one is for the integrated
speaking tasks which is task two three
and four let's have a closer look at the
independent speaking rubric what does it
say if we look at the topic development
criteria
it says response is
stained and sufficient to the task that
means that they will be looking for your
answer to the question the question that
they have asked you in task one they'll
ask you to choose between two sides yeah
so they'll be looking for your choice
and what reasons you've used to support
that choice so it's very important that
you stay on topic and the reasons that
you give are relevant to the question
that has been asked now let's look at
the integrated speaking rubrics conveys
the relevant information so here because
you have to use information from the
lecture and the reading or the
conversation that they've given you you
have to be able to choose relevant
information and again when you're
speaking you need to stay on topic and
not get caught up in mentioning all the
minor details which you don't really
need to include in your answer now let's
look at the second reason so the second
reason is organizing your ideas why is
this important
let's go back to our rubrics again now
here it says relationships between ideas
are clear or clear progression of ideas
what this means is that your idea should
be structured in a logical manner they
should flow beautifully so that the
person who is listening to your answer
is able to follow your train of thought
as you can see these two bits make up
about 33% of your total speaking score
which is why taking notes can really
help improve your score let's not forget
the integrated speaking rubrics what did
they say again pretty similar to what
the previous one said clear progression
of ideas so everything that I just said
applies to both types of tasks so if you
take good notes and use them skillfully
in your answers you'll be able to get
top marks in the topic development
criterion of the rubrics I've made a few
note taking templates for
guys so you can quickly go through these
we won't have time to go into detail
about each task and how to answer it but
if you go to ET language comm we conduct
live classes every day and look at each
of these tasks in further detail we look
at note-taking strategies we look at how
to implement these templates looking at
different practice questions so be sure
to join us all right let's keep going
let's look at tip number two tip number
two is to learn some useful words and
phrases so what kinds of words and
phrases would you have to know in order
to be able to get a really good score in
this section of the test so that's
basically three things that you'll be
expected to do number one you'll be
expected to express your opinion and the
opinion of others number two you'll be
asked to give reasons for your opinion
and for the opinion of others and you
will be expected to give some examples
as well so here's the list of
expressions or phrases that you can use
to express opinion I agree with she
agrees with so this is positive right so
when you're agreeing with someone that
means that you share their opinion the
opposite of agree would be disagree so
you could say he disagrees with I
disagree with she disagrees with the
next one is I'm in favor of I'm in favor
of the new policy or if you don't really
agree with the new policy you can say I
am against or he or she is against the
new policy I prefer so when you are
given two options and there's some
there's one thing that you you're more
likely to do or that you like to do
better then you would say I prefer for
example I prefer to live on campus you
could also say he believes he's of the
opinion that
or his view of or her view of let's look
at how we can use these different
phrases in sentences in just a bit so
notice how with third-person pronouns
you always use an S with the verb so
don't forget your SS so it'll be I
believe but he believes she believes I
agree or I disagree but he agrees she
agrees or you know they disagree let's
see what they sound like in sentences I
am off the opinion that students should
have access to more facilities she is in
favor of the university's decision to
postpone the midterms the students view
of the new policy is mostly positive
the professor prefers Freud's approach
he believes that this theory is more
accessible so accessible just means that
it's easier to understand so these are
some really good ways of starting
sentences that express an opinion and as
I mentioned earlier it could be your
opinion or someone else's it really
doesn't matter it's important to know
these phrases in advanced because this
will help you buy time on test day if
you're thinking about what to say next
if you have these phrases in mind you'll
get those extra couple of seconds to
think about your sentence structure or
the words you're gonna use and all that
kind of stuff so the second thing you'll
be expected to do is to give reasons and
here's some words and phrases that you
can use to do exactly that you've
probably seen these words hurt them and
use them yourselves but let's go through
these anyway so we have because or
because of due to sins thanks to you
thanks to is usually to give a reason
that's positive
given that on account of and to mention
another cause for the same event you
could see another reason for just so you
don't sound repetitive alright let's
look at these words in action well words
and phrases the letter states that the
pool will remain closed on account of
bad weather so notice how on account of
is usually followed by a noun
she was finally able to get a job
thanks to Student Support Services again
followed by a noun he likes to study
there because it's quiet the event was
canceled because of the unruly crowd
unruly is not well behaved like people
who misbehave are unruly given that most
students want to borrow this book it'll
be restocked soon so this is a slightly
different sentence structure so you can
use this to sound kind of dist and stand
out and show the examiner the extent of
your vocabulary and yeah your knowledge
of prama basically now let's look at how
to give examples these are pretty short
and sweet
so you can obviously say for example for
instance it's okay to say like a lot of
people in conversation would use like
quite a bit but they are a bit hesitant
to use it in the exam but it's
completely okay if you sound
conversational you're actually likely to
get a higher score because that means
that you've been practicing the language
for long enough and you have a good
command of the language so don't be
afraid of you know talking about using
colloquial phrases or you know what's
like like or such as as in all of these
are good to use
also as illustrated by sounds a little
bit formal but if it's about a lecture
and you want to describe an example that
the professor is given as illustrated by
it is a really good option to have let's
look at this phrase in action it's a
complex process as illustrated by the
professor's explanation of the Machu
Picchu excavations so excavations are
basically when archaeologists and
historians dig for like ancient relics
or artifacts that's what excavation
means just looking for objects from
ancient civilizations paintings of this
era are famous because of renowned
artists like Picasso and Dali this
phenomenon only occurs under certain
conditions such as low temperatures so
you don't have to use all of these
expressions in all of your answers just
pick two or three that you find
comfortable using and stick with those
so you can sort of recycle or reuse
these in the different tasks but it's
always good to have a a few options so
that you don't sound repetitive and you
don't use the same one over and over
again alright time for the last tip are
you ready tip number three this one's
pretty easy you just got to record
yourself what does that mean you need to
record your answers to practice
questions and make sure to listen back
this is basically what will help you
record your answer listen back just give
yourself a score using the marking
criteria that we looked at earlier and
then repeat the process trying to
improve the bits that you struggle with
how is this going to help you improve
your score if you look at the delivery
criterion
were quite a few things that they're
looking for so let's look at the first
thing they're looking for is fluid
expression that means it's well paste
you don't stop too much you don't do a
lot of ohms and ahhs
this means that you don't stop too much
there aren't awkward pauses not a lot of
Amazonas so you want to avoid those
things and it's really hard to sort of
understand whether you're doing them or
why you're doing them so if you record
yourself and listen back it's easier to
spot those errors
similarly with pronunciation and
intonation difficulties it's easier to
spot these errors afterwards because
when you're like giving your answer
right like when you're recording your
answer you're not really focusing on
these little tiny bits of information
you're thinking about the content you're
thinking about what you're gonna say
next there's so many things going on in
your head it's just impossible to keep
these little things in mind so it's
always good to go back listen to
yourself and the next time you record
your answer you'll be more mindful of
these mistakes all right and it's not
just in the independent speaking task
right it's also in the integrated
speaking tasks that you'll be judged on
your on fluid and sustained speech which
is basically fluid expression and
difficulties with pronunciation and
intonation so it's going to help you
with all the tasks in the speaking
section so once you've done this you can
expect together fall which is the
highest score that you can get for each
task in delivery language use and topic
development for both task types and once
you've mastered all these skills you're
on your way to getting a 30 out of 30
but all of this knowledge is kind of
useless if you don't put it to good use
so you need to practice you need to
practice these skills you need to
practice these tips and that's how you
will be able to get
to you on 30 so if you want to practice
your speaking skills head over to ET
language comm where we have a bunch of
different questions for each of these
speaking tasks and don't forget to
subscribe like comment and share
[Music]